Inheritance wallet - Part 1 (#1081)
BitcoinDesign/Guide: guide/inheritance-wallet/wallet-creation.md

   alt-text = "A couple of screens from the reference design prototype"
   width = 800
   height = 500
%}

### Onboarding

After downloading the app, the app walks the users through the purpose of the product and highlights some of the most important features. 

{% include image-gallery.html pages = page.images_wallet-creation %}

### Wallet configuration

The wallet creation flow consists of two main parts. The first is the wallet configuration, where Bob and Alice define the rules for how the wallet should work. In the second part, they add all the signing keys.

#### Primary key set

Bob starts the wallet creation process on his phone, while Alice will use the app on her own phone to add her signing key. The app gives them a choice between two of the most commonly used wallet types: a standard, single-key wallet or a 2-of-3 multi-key wallet, which is suited for larger savings. 

{% include image-gallery.html pages = page.images_wallet-configuration %}

There is also a third option that allows users to create their own custom setups. But Bob and Alice choose the multi-key approach.

#### Recovery path

> After configuring the primary key set, the app asks the users whether they would like to enable a recovery path. We have covered this in the time-based reference design as well. Here we show an alternative design option for this same feature.

Author: Removed the sentence, as it as not relevant

{% include image-gallery.html pages = page.images_recovery-path %}

We could also call the recovery path a recovery key set, since it technically is just that. However, the point of the recovery path is that we want to use the same keys that are used in the primary key set. To make this distinction more clear, we treat recovery paths as a different feature from alternative key sets in our application. You might want to take a different approach in your own application, based on your specific user base.

#### Inheritance key set

> After enabling the recovey path, the app offers users to create a dedicated inheritance key set. This works in more or less the same way as for the primary key set.

Author: Tweaked the text for more clarity.

The main exception is that the inheritance key set should only be unlocked after a certain amount of time. After choosing the appropriate key set type, Bob is prompted to define the rules under which the key set should be unlocked.

{% include image-gallery.html pages = page.images_inheritance-key-set %}

## Adding the signing keys

The wallet is now fully configured. What is left to do is to add the necessary amount signing keys.

#### Primary keys

Adding a key technically means that users have to import the extended public key (XPUB) from each signing device that should be used to sign transactions. 

> This sounds more complicated than it actually is. Depending on the specific signing devices that are being used, it can be as simple as scanning a QR code, connecting it via NFC or Bluetooth, or by using a USB cable. Bob does just that and imports the first two keys by himself.

Author: No, the idea is that all keys are external keys:
- Bob's Trezor
- Alice's Bitbox
- A ColdCard stored in a safety deposit box to which both, Alice and Bob, have access.

{% include image-gallery.html pages = page.images_primary-keys-bob %}

> Our application allows the users to create the wallet collaboratively. This means that each key holder can use their own phone and signing device to add their key. So Bob creates a key request that Alice can use.

Author: That's a very good point. Thanks for bringing it up!

My original idea was that the app is optimized for collaborative wallet creation. The idea is that "requesting" a key is really just sharing the QR-encoded wallet details. Each request contains a unique identifier that prevents the same invite from being used twice and also defines the key set to which the XPUB will belong (primary or inheritance). 

During that process, the app (wallet provider) would keep track of this and keep adding the XPUBs to the assigned key set as they come in. You're right that this implies the wallet provider of storing the configuration somewhere, until wallet creation is finished. Since there is no signup required, the wallet provider would only see the configuration of the wallet with no additional data. But, as you point out, it introduces risk for the users, as the provider can tamper with the wallet config. 

Might well be that I'm over-emphasizing the asynchronous and remote use case. After all, meeting physically (or remotely over video call) is probably a reasonable thing to do in a family.

{% include image-gallery.html pages = page.images_primary-keys-alice %}

Once Alice has added her key, Bob gets a push notification that prompts him to approve the newly added key. 

{% include image-gallery.html pages = page.images_primary-keys-approve %}

#### Inheritance keys

The inheritance keys are added in the same way. Christina, David and Edward also use their own phones to add their signing devices to the wallet. Alternatively, they could have transmitted their public keys to Alice and Bob over a secure channel.

> In the background, our application marks their keys as inheritance keys. The app then keeps track of whether the inheritance key set is unlocked or not and manages wallet access accordingly, on the application layer. This allows David, Christina and Edward to participate in the setup from the beginning without compromising the financial privacy of the parents. 

Author: The idea is that as long as the inheritance key set is locked, the heirs only see in the app that they hold one of the inheritance keys. As soon the inheritance key set is unlocked, they have the same view as the wallet "owners" and can spend funds.

{% include image-gallery.html pages = page.images_add-inheritance-keys %}

An added benefit of everybody using our application from the beginning is that it allows the family to conveniently perform key checks remotely and at regular intervals. 

> On top of that, the children don't have to set up anything more or run through a dedicated recovery process when the time comes. The app just unlocks the wallet so that they can move the funds to another wallet. 

Author: As soon the inheritance key set is unlocked, they heirs have the same view as the wallet "owners" and can spend funds.

      alt:
      caption:
    - file: wallet-creation/creation-request-key-sheet
      alt:
      caption:
    - file: wallet-creation/creation-request-key-name
      alt:
      caption:
    - file: wallet-creation/creation-request-key-share
      alt:
      caption:
    - file: wallet-creation/alice-add-wallet-sheet
      alt:
      caption:
    - file: wallet-creation/alice-scan-request
      alt:
      caption:
    - file: wallet-creation/alice-add-wallet-overview
      alt:
      caption:
    - file: wallet-creation/alice-add-key-import-options
      alt:
      caption:
    - file: wallet-creation/alice-add-key-import-flow
      alt:
      caption:
    - file: wallet-creation/alice-add-done
      alt:
      caption:
images_primary-keys-approve:
    - file: wallet-creation/creation-key-added-push-notification
      alt:
      caption:
    - file: wallet-creation/creation-key-added-overview
      alt:
      caption:
    - file: wallet-creation/creation-key-bob-review
      alt:
      caption:
    - file: wallet-creation/creation-key-added-reviewed
      alt:
      caption:
    - file: wallet-creation/creation-home-reminders
      alt:
      caption:
images_add-inheritance-keys: 

>     - file: wallet-creation/creation-request-key-share

Reviewer: Think you mean to use Christina's key request QR image here.

```suggestion
    - file: wallet-creation/creation-request-key-share-1
```

Reviewer: I meant this change as a fix to the mistake in the image below (if it is even a mistake). Do confirm this fixes it on your side, I did not test this on local.

<img width="963" alt="dscdfg" src="https://github.com/BitcoinDesign/Guide/assets/114083781/b3780fb6-7702-4900-9ed6-2338ec5dee7f">

{% include image-gallery.html pages = page.images_wallet-configuration %}

There is also a third option that allows users to create their own custom setups. But Bob and Alice choose the multi-key approach.

#### Recovery path

After configuring the primary key set, the app asks the users whether they would like to enable a recovery path. We have covered this in the time-based reference design as well. Here we show an alternative design option for this same feature.

{% include image-gallery.html pages = page.images_recovery-path %}

We could also call the recovery path a recovery key set, since it technically is just that. However, the point of the recovery path is that we want to use the same keys that are used in the primary key set. To make this distinction more clear, we treat recovery paths as a different feature from alternative key sets in our application. You might want to take a different approach in your own application, based on your specific user base.

> #### Inheritance key set

Author: Rephrased this part. I hope it's clearer now. I feel like the distinction between primary key set and inheritance key set is not a bad one. It makes it clear that they are different keys. The recovery path is a way to recover funds using the primary key set.

After enabling the recovey path, the app offers users to create a dedicated inheritance key set. This works in more or less the same way as for the primary key set.

The main exception is that the inheritance key set should only be unlocked after a certain amount of time. After choosing the appropriate key set type, Bob is prompted to define the rules under which the key set should be unlocked.

{% include image-gallery.html pages = page.images_inheritance-key-set %}

## Adding the signing keys

> The wallet is now fully configured. What is left to do is to add the necessary amount signing keys.

Reviewer: Typo here.

```suggestion
The wallet is now fully configured. What is left to do is to add the necessary amount of signing keys.
```

Our application allows the users to create the wallet collaboratively. This means that each key holder can use their own phone and signing device to add their key. So Bob creates a key request that Alice can use.

{% include image-gallery.html pages = page.images_primary-keys-alice %}

Once Alice has added her key, Bob gets a push notification that prompts him to approve the newly added key. 

{% include image-gallery.html pages = page.images_primary-keys-approve %}

#### Inheritance keys

The inheritance keys are added in the same way. Christina, David and Edward also use their own phones to add their signing devices to the wallet. Alternatively, they could have transmitted their public keys to Alice and Bob over a secure channel.

In the background, our application marks their keys as inheritance keys. The app then keeps track of whether the inheritance key set is unlocked or not and manages wallet access accordingly, on the application layer. This allows David, Christina and Edward to participate in the setup from the beginning without compromising the financial privacy of the parents. 

{% include image-gallery.html pages = page.images_add-inheritance-keys %}

> An added benefit of everybody using our application from the beginning is that it allows the family to conveniently perform key checks remotely and in regular intervals. 

Reviewer: Nit for grammar.

```suggestion
An added benefit of everybody using our application from the beginning is that it allows the family to conveniently perform key checks remotely and at regular intervals. 
```

On top of that, the children don't have to set up anything more or run through a dedicated recovery process when the time comes. The app just unlocks the wallet so that they can move the funds to another wallet. 

It is important to note, however, that it is not required for everybody to use our app. The underlying wallet can be recovered using other wallet applications. We will cover this topic in more detail in a later chapter.

## Finalizing the wallet

> After all of the keys have been added, Bob and Alice can proceed to create the wallet. They review it the details and hit "create wallet". 

Reviewer: Nit: extra word.

```suggestion
After all of the keys have been added, Bob and Alice can proceed to create the wallet. They review the details and hit "create wallet". 
```

On the confirmation screen, they are asked to download the wallet backup kit. The couple doesn't want to deal with the backup right now, so they decide to skip it. After all, are no funds in the wallet yet. 

{% include image-gallery.html pages = page.images_finalize-wallet %}

The homescreen shows the newly created wallet. In addition, the app shows a couple of reminders that they should still download the backup as well as scheduling a regular key check.

{% include image-gallery.html pages = page.images_homescreen %}

> Christina, David and Edward only see that they hold one of the inheritance keys for the family savings wallet. But they cannot see the wallet balance or their parents public keys. If they did, they could start monitoring transactions.

Reviewer: Nit: grammar
```suggestion
Christina, David and Edward only see that they hold one of the inheritance keys for the family savings wallet. But they cannot see the wallet balance or their parents' public keys. If they did, they could start monitoring transactions.
```

    - file: wallet-creation/wallet-creation-success
      alt: Screen showing a success message and the option to download a wallet backup kit. 
      caption: On the success screen, Bob gets prompted to download the wallet backup kit. 
    - file: wallet-creation/wallet-creation-home-reminders
      alt: App home screen showing the newly created wallet.
      caption: Bob and Alice can start using their new family savings wallet.
---

<!--

Editor's notes

This page covers a multi-key wallet that uses timelocks to provide additional recovery options.  

Illustration sources

https://www.figma.com/file/h5GP5v5dYfpXXfEUXf6nvC/Family-inheritance-wallet?type=design&node-id=5542%3A2119&mode=design&t=sBtcvrDzb8MPtWaK-1

-->

# Wallet creation 
{: .no_toc }

---

<div class="glossary-toc" markdown="1">
 * Table of contents
{:toc}
</div>

---

## Onboarding

Now that we have a [good understanding]({{ '/guide/inheritance-wallet/overview/' | relative_url }}) of how Bob and Alice want to set up their inheritance wallet, let's take a close look at the first use experience and wallet setup.

> After downloading the app, the app walks them through the purpose of the product and highlights some of the most important features. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After downloading the app, it walks them through the purpose of the product and highlights some of the most important features. 
```

## Wallet creation

After going through the app onboarding flow, Bob and Alice are ready to create their savings wallet. The wallet creation flow consists of three main tasks: 

1. Configure the wallet
2. Import the signing keys
3. Review and finalize the wallet

Try out the prototype below. It covers the entire wallet creation process.

{% include prototype.html
   link = "https://www.figma.com/proto/h5GP5v5dYfpXXfEUXf6nvC/Inheritance-wallet?page-id=5542%3A2120&type=design&node-id=6227-6395&viewport=632%2C2194%2C0.09&t=GM6AiUnmOWB7jsQs-1&scaling=min-zoom&starting-point-node-id=6227%3A6395&show-proto-sidebar=1&mode=design"
   image = "/assets/images/guide/inheritance-wallet/wallet-creation/prototype.jpg"
   retina = "/assets/images/guide/inheritance-wallet/wallet-creation/prototype@2x.jpg"
   mobile = "/assets/images/guide/inheritance-wallet/wallet-creation/prototype-mobile.jpg"
   mobileRetina = "/assets/images/guide/inheritance-wallet/wallet-creation/prototype-mobile@2x.jpg"
   alt-text = "A couple of screens from the reference design prototype"
   width = 800
   height = 500
%}

## Step 1: Wallet configuration

> The first is the wallet configuration, where Bob and Alice define the rules for how the wallet should work. In the second part, they add all the signing keys.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We start with wallet configuration, where Bob and Alice define the rules for how the wallet should work. In the second part, they add all the signing keys.
```

#### Creating the primary key set

Bob starts the wallet creation process on his phone, while Alice will use the app on her own phone to add her signing key. The app gives them a choice between two of the most commonly used wallet types: The first one is a standard, single-key wallet. The second option is a 2-of-3 multi-key wallet, which is suited for larger savings. There is also a third option that allows users to create their own custom setups. Bob and Alice choose the 2-of-3 multi-key wallet.

{% include image-gallery.html pages = page.images_wallet-configuration %}

#### Enabling the recovery path

> After configuring the primary key set, the app asks the users whether they would like to enable a recovery path. The recovery path uses the same keys that are part of the primary key set and unlocks after 6 months of inactivity. If it is unlocked, only one signature will be required to spend bitcoin, instead of two. We have covered this in the time-based reference design as well.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After configuring the primary key set, the app asks the users whether they would like to enable a recovery path. The recovery path uses the same keys that are part of the primary key set and unlocks after 6 months of inactivity. If it is unlocked, only one signature will be required to spend bitcoin, instead of two. We have covered this in the time-based reference design as well.
```
Turn `time-based reference design` into a link to that page.

The main difference is that the inheritance key set should only be unlocked after a certain amount of time. Therefore, Bob is prompted to define the rules under which the key set should be unlocked, after he has chosen the appropriate key set type.

{% include image-gallery.html pages = page.images_inheritance-key-set %}

## Step 2: Adding the signing keys

The wallet is now fully configured. What is left to do is to add the signing keys. Adding a key technically means that users have to import the extended public key (XPUB) from each signing device that should be used to sign transactions. 

### Adding the primary keys

This sounds more complicated than it actually is. Depending on the specific signing devices that are being used, it can be as simple as scanning a QR code, connecting it via NFC or Bluetooth, or by using a USB cable. 

##### Bob adds the first two keys
Bob gets started and imports the first two keys by himself. One from his personal Trezor and one from a Coldcard that he shares with Alice.

{% include image-gallery.html pages = page.images_primary-keys-bob %}

##### Bob requests the third key from Alice

> Next, it's time to add Alice's key, which will be imported from her Bitbox. Our app makes this process easy, because Bob can just create a key request that Alice can scan with her phone. Alternatively, he can also send it to her via a secure channel.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Next, it's time to add Alice's key, which will be imported from her BitBox. Our app makes this process easy, because Bob can just create a key request that Alice can scan with her phone. Alternatively, he can also send it to her via a secure channel.
```

{% include image-gallery.html pages = page.images_primary-keys-alice-add-to-wallet %}  

##### Time to hit pause
All primary keys have now been added to the wallet. Next, Bob and Alice need to add the inheritance keys in the same way. They plan to do that during a family gathering which is coming up on the following weekend. For now, Bob hits "Save and finish later". The application saves the progress locally and allows Bob to continue later.

{% include image-gallery.html pages = page.images_creation-save %}

### Adding the inheritance keys

Bob and Alice already met with Edward, their lawyer, ahead of the family meeting and imported his key to the wallet. So only Christina's and David's keys remain to be added to the wallet.

During the family reunion, Bob opens our application and resumes the wallet creation process. Just like with Alice's key, he creates a key request for Christina and David.

##### Christina creates a new key in the app

> Christina could follow the same procedure for importing a key from her existing signing device, as described above. However, Christina does not want to use her existing hardware wallet from the family savings. Instead, she wants to create a new key for the family savings wallet, so that she can keep it on a seperate signing device. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Christina could follow the same procedure for importing a key from her existing signing device, as described above. However, Christina does not want to use her existing hardware wallet from the family savings. Instead, she wants to create a new key for the family savings wallet, so that she can keep it on a separate signing device. 
```
